Hagoromo and Hamura
Mother loved this world. She tried to love humans.
But her wish was dashed
so she ate the fruit of the Divine Tree to try to protect her children.
However…
Mother's real tale of despair begins from here…
Shortly afterwards, Mother gave birth to twins.
They were…Hagoromo and Hamura.
Mother looks up at the sky like that every day…
I wonder what she's looking for?
She never tells us anything. No one knows what's in her heart.
Perhaps she has feelings that even we, her own sons, cannot fathom.
Hey, Hagoromo and Hamura! Please come with me!
What's the matter, Haori?
If you use all the water at your place,
there won't be any water downstream for the rice paddies.
That's not my fault!
Wait! What's going on?
I'll tell ya what's going on! This guy is taking all the water!
My paddy's upstream, so I can't help it!
But until now, wasn't there enough water for everyone?
Well, all of a sudden, the flow of the river's gotten weak.
Did something happen upstream?
I would go and check,
but there's a huge bear roaming around this mountain.
You gotta be really careful.
Just recently, an old lady went foraging for edible wild plants,
and got hurt really bad.
All right. We'll go check.
Really? That'd be great!
Be careful, Hagoromo.
We'll be fine.
Let's go, Hamura.
Right.
See anything?
Hold on a minute.
There's a huge boulder upstream.
I see…
So this is what's blocking the flow of the river.
But where did this boulder come from?
It wasn't there the last time we were up here.
Either it fell from somewhere, or someone put it there.
What do you bean by "someone"?
No one can move a boulder this big
other than Mother and you, Elder Brother.
I put it there.
Hey, don't brush me off like I'm some sort of bug…
‘Cuz I'm not a bug… I'm a toad.
Hey, am I going crazy?
There's a toad trying to make bad jokes…
Well, Elder Brother, it must mean I'm going crazy too.
No, you're not going crazy. I really am talking to you.
But if you think my jokes aren't funny, then that's a little crazy.
No one's hiding around here…
It's not some Ventriloquism Jutsu either.
You're pretty wary for a human.
You're pretty arrogant for a toad.
We toads have lived here far longer than you.
You just don't know it.
A talking toad…
You think people will be happy if we captured it and took it home?
Fool!
Do you really think you both can catch me?
For a toad, you sure talk big…
It seems we have a guest.
That's a huge bear!
Perfect timing. I'll show you just how strong I am.
I placed this boulder here so I could meet you two.
My name is Gamamaru.
And you two are Hagoromo and Hamura, right?
A toad just addressed us by our first names…
Come with me, you two.
Oops, I almost forgot.
Oh… Not bad.
Why did you bring us here?
Do you know what that is?
Of course.
That's the Peak of Demise.
Have you ever seen what's beyond that?
No, never.
Mother has warned us not to go near that peak.
Everyone must follow that law.
No one has ever seen what's on the other side.
The truth behind the Divine Tree is beyond that peak.
The truth behind the Divine Tree?
The Divine Tree has been absorbing the power of this land.
As long as that tree exists, the land will continue to weaken.
Is that true?
But I've heard that it's because of the power of the Divine Tree
that this land has thrived.
You're wrong!
If you want to know the truth,
go see what's on the other side of that peak.
Later!
"The truth"?
Is Lady Kaguya really not here?
How many times must I tell you? She's not here.
Welcome home, Masters Hagoromo and Hamura.
What's the matter?
This man is very persistent.
Who are you?
I'm a traveling medicine peddler.
I wanted to do some business here
and came to get Lady Kaguya's permission.
Where is Mother?
She said she would be away tonight.
I see, so she's gone out again.
She's been away a lot lately.
What do I do now?
Well now, what do you have here?
Let me take a look at your medicines.
What are you doing to my products?!
These are just weeds and moldy nuts…
This one's a poisonous mushroom.
If you take these, you'll get even sicker.
You're just a snake oil salesman…
This village has our mother, my elder brother and me.
We can cure any illness anywhere, at anytime.
No one will buy stuff like this.
Your power… Is it from the Divine Tree?
Just get out of here… or you'll be sorry.
Damn it! How dare they belittle me!
They made me so mad, my back pain is flaring up again.
The Divine Tree, huh?
If I take even just a small branch, I could sell it for a fortune…
Yes! While the devil is away… Just forget about it.
Don't be foolish enough to go near the Divine Tree. You'll die.
You are—!
I apologize for earlier.
My younger brother is quite hot-tempered.
What do you want?!
Oww!
I want to ask you something.
Are you joking?!
You're not getting anything out of me!
If you answer me, I'll heal your back.
Like doing that will cure anything.
If it's that simple, no one would go through…
What? The pain's gone?!
Hey! You really did fix my back!
So, will you answer my questions?
Yes! Anything!
You've traveled to many different places, correct?
Oh, yes. That's how I make my living.
Have you ever seen what's beyond that peak?
No, I haven't. But I've seen many other lands…
What do they say about my mother in other lands?
Well, that's…um…
Tell me even if it's something negative.
Okay.
There are rumors about people rebelling here and there,
over Lady Kaguya's Ritual of the Divine Tree.
And in order to suppress them,
Lady Kaguya has annihilated the instigators.
Lately, rumors are swirling that Lady Kaguya is just a tyrant…
"Annihilated"?
No wonder Mother has been away a lot…
Leave, and never return. It's for your own good.
Yes, sir!
Everything is going well.
Elder Brother?
Hmm? Oh good, no news is good news.
Elder Brother, are you still thinking about what that toad said?
No… It's not about that, but…
They're part of the Ritual of the Divine Tree…
No way!
Elder Brother!
Haori!
Hagoromo… Hamura… What's going on?
I've received notice to serve the Divine Tree.
But—!
I have no choice.
This is a ceremony that Lady Kaguya established eons ago…
Hagoromo, Hamura…
It was only for a short time, but I'm glad I got to meet you two.
Please remember me.
Haori!
Mother…
Please end the Ritual of the Divine Tree.
That is not possible.
But—!
I will not tolerate any defiance, even if you are my sons.
Then please tell me…
What happens to those who go to the Divine Tree as part of this ritual?
Why does no one ever return?
This ritual is necessary… until the others arrive.
"The others"?
You don't need to know about them just yet.
Hagoromo, Hamura… I am leaving once more.
Take care of things in my absence.
Yes.
Elder Brother… You're not thinking of…
Yes, I intend to climb that peak.
If Mother finds out, you'll get into a great deal of trouble.
I'm prepared for the consequences.
Okay, Elder Brother. I'm coming with you.
What is this?!
Elder Brother!
Hamura!
What's wrong?
Elder Brother! Can you deal with this cocoon?
Haori!
Haori! Wake up, Haori!
Elder Brother…
It's no use…
She's dead.
So this is…the truth behind the Ritual of the Divine Tree.
Elder Brother! Your eyes!
Come out, Gamamaru!
It seems like you went beyond that peak…
Come with me.
Where are we?
This is the Land of Toads.
What is this…strange power I feel?
Oh… I'm impressed that a human can feel the power here.
The natural power known as Sage Power flows freely here.
And so, if you use this power…
Even I can do something like this.
Wow…
Follow me!
This is known as the Memory Stone.
"Memory Stone"?
Everything that occurs aboveground is recorded in this stone…
Look at what happened in the past…
Long ago, that tree fell from the sky…
And, as if in pursuit, your mother Kaguya appeared here.
And when your mother arrived,
she fell in love with the emperor of this land
and she became pregnant with you.
However,
Kaguya's destiny with humans was to be trifled by them
and in the end, she became their enemy.
Kaguya acquired the power of the Divine Tree,
and your father, along with his people,
were sacrificed to it.
But, to make sure mankind didn't perish,
she revived some of the humans,
erased their memories and put them back.
Only Kaguya knows the truth.
Where is Mother from anyway?
Why does she protect the Divine Tree?
I don't know.
Perhaps it's related to the fact that she appeared from far up in the sky.
One thing is clear…
Since the Divine Tree took root,
the Nature Energy of this land is being depleted.
How could that happen?
Not just from the land… but from humans too.
As long as that Divine Tree exists…
this great land will wither, and we will suffer the same fate.
We must speak with mother.
Will she even listen to us?
Hagoromo, your mother's power is immense.
I doubt that you can confront her directly.
Even if you are her son.
Gamamaru, will you teach me how to use Sage Power?
Elder Brother!
You're not planning to fight Mother, are you?!
It's just in case…
I see…
If you, who inherited Kaguya's power, acquire Sage Power…
you could definitely take her on.
– However… – What is it?
Teaching you Sage Power is very risky.
Why is that?
Is there any guarantee that after acquiring Sage Power,
you won't become the same as your mother?
Gamamaru… After coming this far, have you become scared?
What did you say?
You're contradicting yourself.
Why did you lie in wait for us, then?
You planned to pit us against Mother and make us fight from the very start.
You're pretty shrewd for a human, aren't you?
Yes, I had a revelation.
Revelation?
Yes, a dream. Toads rarely, if ever, dream.
But that dream was more like a prophecy…
I dreamed of you battling Kaguya.
How did it end?
I don't think his dream went that far.
If it did, he wouldn't be so nervous.
Wha—?! How can you see so far into a toad's heart so clearly…
Just who are you?
Clear your mind…
Just feel the Nature Energy and take it into yourself.
He's a surprise…
Hagoromo's acquired Sage Power in no time at all.
Mother! You're back so soon…
Where is Hagoromo?
Elder Brother is still out patrolling the village…
Hamura!
Hiding things from me is useless.
It's useless…even if you try to repel me with your Byakugan…
My Byakugan is far more superior to yours.
You two broke the law, and went to the peak, didn't you?
Hiding things from me is useless.
I can read your thoughts and feelings.
Then why?
You must know why we're angry with you, Mother.
It seems that you were in love with that young girl…
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: "A Fabricated Past"
Mother, even you must have believed in that in the past!
A FABRICATED PAST
Tune in again!